AUSTRALIA 


WHY AUSTRALIA?
Australia is a global education powerhouse with fantastic long-term opportunities. The infrastructure, facilities, teaching and networking experience in Australia is second to none. This is why studying in Australia has become popular. Moreover, the Australian government has been heavily involved in building a ‘truly internationalised’ education system that is driven by research to address the challenges of the future. Almost $200,000,000 per annum is invested by the Australian government purely on international scholarships. Additionally, the diverse range of courses offered by 
Australian Universities has resulted in Australia being the 3rd most popular destination for international students. Moreover, 7 of the Top 100 Universities in the World are in Australia as are 5 out of the 30 best student cities in the World. Due to all these reasons, students want to study in Australia to further their dreams.

Exam To Reach There :

Students have to pass one or more additional tests before they can be considered by most universities for admission. These range from the standardised graduate and
college admission tests such as GRE, GMAT and SAT to English Language tests, such as TOEFL and IELTS.
The Chopras offers high quality Test Prep programmes throughout India. Through its high-tech, state of the art teaching centres strategically located throughout the country it offers students preparatory training on the full range of admissions tests 
that universities need. Contact The Chopras today for detailed information relating to the tests that may be needed for admission in Australia

Education And Degrees: 
Australian Qualification Framework (AQF)

Australia has an integrated nationwide system of qualifications, known as the Australian Qualification Framework (AQF), which is recognized by the Australian Government. Under this, students can move easily from one level of study to the next and receive credit for previous study. It brings together the quality offered at different levels.

Type of institution

University 
There are 41 universities ranging in size from around 3,000 students to 50,000 students - 39 of these are government run. Australian universities offer undergraduate and postgraduate programs in traditional and modern subject areas such as innovative courses in IT, electronic business and science. Australian academics have won prestigious awards, including several Nobel Prizes, and are involved in ground-breaking research.

 

 

Courses available at Under Graduate & Graduate Level

Awarded courses vary considerably with the higher education sector in the form of entry requirements, duration and method of assessment. The following awards are offered by Australian Universities:

Doctoral Degree
Masters Degree
Graduate Diploma / Graduate Certificate
Bachelors Degree
TAFE Certificate III & IV
Undergraduate Diploma / Advanced Diploma and
Associate Diploma/ AQF (Australian Quality Framework) Diploma
 

Courses

Humanities : English, Philosophy, History, Foreign Language Studies, Communications, Psychology
Education : Education Studies, Teaching, Early Childhood, Special Education
Social Studies : Geography, Behavioral Studies, Welfare And Counseling, Sport And Recreation, Sociology
Mathematics And Computing :Mathematics And Statistics, Computer Based Information System, Computer Science
Science : Science Pharmacology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Biotechnology
Visual And Performing Arts : Art, Graphic Arts, Fashion Design, Crafts, Performing Arts, Music
Engineering : Chemical, Civil, Electrical, Electronics, Structural, Mechanical, Automotive, Aeronautical, Mining, Industrial, General Engineering, Computer, Telecommunications, Mechatronics, Polymer, Environmental
Business Administration And Law : Economics, Accounting, Commerce, Management, Administration, Marketing, Finance, HR Economics, Accounting, Commerce, Management, Administration, Marketing, Finance, HR
Health Sciences : Nursing, Nutrition, Environmental Health, Personal And Family Health Care, Pharmacy, Veterinary Sci, Public Health, Physiotherapy.
Agriculture : Agriculture, Forest, Horticulture
Hospitality & Tourism :Hotel Management, Tourism Management, Commercial Cookery.

Vocational Education and Training in Australia (VET)

Australia offers a wide variety of vocational education and training courses. Each year increasing numbers of international students are choosing the TAFE option, either as a means of training and qualifying for a highly skilled job in business, the arts, or industry, or as an alternative pathway into university degree studies. The advantages for international students choosing to undertake TAFE studies are numerous but lower fees is one of the main criteria.

Types of degrees


Undergraduate Studies:

Bachelor programmes may vary from 3 to 4 years. They are available across all faculties of Arts Commerce, Science, IT
Postgraduate Studies:

Australia offers a wide variety of choices for post graduate studies .The individual universities offer different strengths and capabilities, providing a diverse base for research for students. Australian Universities pride themselves on a strong research base and sate of the art equipment to their Universities.

 





List of Universities in the Australia
>>Canberra Institute of Technology (CIT)
>>Central Queensland University
>>Griffith University
>>RMIT University
>>The Australian National University (ANU)
>>University of Canberra
>>University of Queensland
>>University of Tasmania
>>University of Wollongong
